# Documentation

## Getting started

There are two ways to run set up this application locally.

- Using VSCode with Dev Containers
- Installing the dependencies locally and running via Docker Compose

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Using VSCode and Dev Containers

See [our guide](local-development/vscode-and-devcontainers.md) to get started.

### Installing dependencies on your own machine

See [our guide](local-development/local-installation.md) to get started.

## Running tests

You can run the following in the terminal

```shell
bundle exec rspec
```

**NOTE:** [If you're using VSCode](local-development/vscode-and-devcontainers.md) you can also run the "bundle exec rspec - run the tests" task.

When you run the full test suite with the above command a report will be generated by SimpleCov. In the command line on completion of the tests you will see a coverage percentage.

If you want more indepth understanding of which files are covered:

```shell
open coverage/index.html
```

### Dev tips

- To get Rubocop to fix detected issues automatically (where it can):

    ```shell
    bundle exec rubocop -a
    ```

- To run Brakeman locally

    ```shell
    brakeman
    ```

- To step through the ignored warnings

    ```shell
    brakeman -I
    ```

## Testing subscription emails

### Local dev

#### Email templates

When working on email templates, [Action Mailer Previews](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_mailer_basics.html#previewing-emails) provide a way to test the output of these templates without having to actually send any emails. We have one set up for subscription lesson emails – example usage:

<http://localhost:3000/rails/mailers/lesson_mailer/lesson_email?course=how-to-manage-your-money&lesson_no=1&languages=en,ar&disguised=true>

Note: this preview currently uses the first `User` in the database, so make sure you have one registered locally!

#### Full subscription email flow

You can also test out the full subscription email flow locally. We use [mailcatcher](https://github.com/sj26/mailcatcher) to capture all sent email from the local app. An instance of mailcatcher will already be running if you've used the Docker Compose set up mentioned above – you can open this at <http://localhost:1080/>.

Steps to test:

1. Start up the Sidekiq background worker using **(this is not necessary if you're using the Dev Container setup)**:

    ```shell
    bundle exec sidekiq -c 1
    ```

2. Make or edit a new subscription in the app – make sure the schedule is set accordingly (i.e. to send you an email within the current time slot; note the timezone option, especially if you're currently in daylight savings time).
3. Trigger the subscriptions processor:

    ```shell
    bin/rails subscriptions:trigger_worker
    ```

4. Watch the logs for the Sidekiq background worker to see it processing subscriptions and potentially sending out lesson emails.
5. Open up the [mailcatcher interface to view all sent emails](http://localhost:1080/).

### On Heroku review apps

By default, newly created review apps on Heroku won't have any of the subscriptions processing and email sending set up. If you do need to test out subscriptions on a review app you can set this up:

- A Mailgun email service add-on should already be provisioned within the review app – you now need to add your email address to the "allow list" to ensure emails are received:
  - Go to the "Resources" section of your review app in the Heroku console
  - Click on the "Mailgun" add-on – this opens up the Mailgun console
  - Click on "Overview" in the left hand sidebar
  - In the "Authorized Recipients" section of the page, add your email address
  - A confirmation email will be sent to you with an activation link that you'll need to click on
- Now enable a worker dyno for the Sidekiq background worker:
  - Go to the "Resources" section of your review app in the Heroku console
  - Enable a single worker dyno under the "Hobby Dynos" section
- Now set up a recurring job to trigger the subscriptions processing:
  - Go to the "Resources" section of your review app in the Heroku console
  - Under "Add-ons" search for "scheduler" and select "Heroku Scheduler", then click on "Provision"
  - Now click on the new "Heroku Scheduler" entry in the list to open it's console
  - Click on "Create job"
    - Schedule for "Every hour at..." ":00" (or a different time point if needed for testing)
    - Set the run command to: `bin/rails subscriptions:trigger_worker`
    - Then click on "Save job"
  - This will run the subscriptions processor on an hourly basis
- Now you're ready to create subscriptions in that review app instance and receive lesson emails from it

## Storyblok content preview mode and caching

The env var `CONTENT_PREVIEW_MODE` determines the behaviour of content fetches from Storyblok…

When `CONTENT_PREVIEW_MODE` is set to `true`:

- **draft** versions of content are fetched
- content is not cached
- --> this is useful for review apps and preview environments, for testing the very latest content

When `CONTENT_PREVIEW_MODE` is set to `false`:

- only the last **published** versions of content are fetched
- content is cached in the Redis specified by the env var `REDIS_CACHE_URL`
- --> so subsequent requests for this data don't need to fetch from Storyblok
- --> this is important for staging and production environments
- --> **this means any published content updates may take some time to show up live** (details below)

The cached content, by default, expires after an hour, after which new published content will be fetched from Storyblok. This expiry can be controlled by the `CONTENT_CACHE_TTL_MINS` env var, if required.

To flush the cache manually, open up the endpoint `<site_base_url>/admin/flush_cache` in a browser. Now the very latest published content will be fetched from Storyblok.
